# CS4110-ME1
Pierre Jhun San Pedro - BSCS 4 | SC 389

On Humanity and Intelligence
by Pierre Jhun D. San Pedro

   Alan Turing’s paper, “Computing Machinery and Intelligence,” is a paper that is far too ahead of its time—but at the same time, is a paper that reflects the era when it was written. The idea that machines, or computers to be exact, can be programmed not just to mimic how humans think, but also simulate intelligence is an idea that was perhaps too innovative for its time, given the capabilities of the technology that were available. It makes you wonder, really, what more could he add, had he seen and experienced the technology that we have now. The paper, with its focus on the central point that if computers were to be programmed to exhibit behavior that is indistinguishable from a human, such behavior could be considered a form of intelligence in on itself—really does beg the question, just how far can we make computers go? 
	
   Turing’s paper, however, isn’t without its faults. While the twenty-plus-page read was worthwhile, the way it was written is very dense and highly technical. Had I not been a computer science student, I would have found it confusing at best, incomprehensible at worst. Still, despite my background, I would have to say that the language itself made the paper a bit difficult to follow along. Disregarding this, the paper itself is a giant thought experiment in on itself, considering how he started with the assumption that computers can be programmed to simulate human behavior and explore what it means to be “intelligent,” and have us, as the readers, not only question, but directly challenge our assumptions about what it means to be human. 

   Beyond the points presented, the way Turing described, pondered, and imagined computers made me realize that despite all the forward-thinking ideas he had, he was still limited by just how much—or how little—computers were able to do at the time of writing. One sentence, “The existence of machines with this property has the important consequence that, considerations of speed apart, it is unnecessary to design various new machines to do various computing processes. They can all be done with one digital computer, suitably programmed for each case,” highlights this revolutionary thinking, but at the same time, the constraints of his era. Nonetheless, being able to accurately envision and theorize the capabilities of computers given their limitation then, is a feat worth mentioning. 

   The manner in which Turing had addressed the opposing and contrasting views on his question, “Can machines think?” also gives insights on just how confident and knowledgeable Turing was on the topic. Despite the claims, oppositions, and prejudice that people had at the time, he was still able to support his theory and introduce ideas that would serve as foundation for the field of Artificial Intelligence. It went even beyond that, I would dare say, as it also questioned the notion of superiority that humans seem to have when it comes to our own existence, because we like to claim the concept and idea of “intelligence” as solely ours—when in fact, who are we really, or better yet, what right do we have to claim so? 

   Can machines think? Perhaps Allan Turing was not just thinking about how machines would someday be able to simulate human intelligence. Perhaps, he was challenging us to reconsider the very notion and nature of intelligence itself. Perhaps, just perhaps, he was thinking of a future wherein computers are not only capable of thinking like humans, but also one in which we, as their creators, expand our own understanding of what it means to be human. 
